# Comparing twitter data and surveys data: a topic modeling and sentiment analysis approach
by Felipe Alamos and Bhargavi Ganesh


## Goal of study

The goal of this study is to analyze if twitter data is a good proxy of masses opinion, and in particular, if tweets reveal the same information as traditional surveys. A full report of the project can be found in the file 'Is Twitter a Proxy for Public Opinion_Alamos-Ganesh.pdf'

## Files in repo

### download_tweets folder

* download_tweets.py: python script that download tweets that contain words given a specific array of keywords
To call, include args max_tweets, keyword_1, keyword_2, etc.
Ex: python3 download_tweets.py 100 \#environment environment

* config.yaml: configuration file specifying some other parameters for downloading tweets (countries, dates and radius of search).

* downloaded_tweets folder: contains csv with downloaded tweets.

### data_cleaning folder

* data_cleaning_environment.R and data_cleaning_climate_change.R are two R scripts that read the raw .csv files of downloaded tweets, cleans them and creates new files with the corpus.

* corpus_df_#environment-usa.csv and corpus_df_#climatechange-usa.csv are the two files generated by the previous scripts. The former will be used for topic modelling and the latter for sentiment analysis.

### topic_modeling folder

* topic_modeling.R: R script that runs topic modelling analysis on the tweets corpuses

* plots folder: presents plots and images from the topic modelling

### sentiment analysis

* sentiment_analysis.R: main script to run sentiment analysis on twitter. 
* vader_final.py: python script to make sentiment analysis with vader dictionary

### eda_survey folder

* eda_survey.R: sript that plots basic eda of survey responses, both for environmental issues and climate change questions.

## Setup
- pip install [GetOldTweets3](https://github.com/Mottl/GetOldTweets3), library used to download tweets.

## References
We used [this](https://towardsdatascience.com/beginners-guide-to-lda-topic-modelling-with-r-e57a5a8e7a25#https://www.kaggle.com/crowdflower/first-gop-debate-twitter-sentiment) example as a general guideline to conduct topic modelling on twitter data.
